Best  practices 

Some common sense advice on how to run BUSCO assessments, as well as
on how to report BUSCO findings in publications etc.  to make sure
they are both interpretable and reproducible. Running BUSCO:  BUSCO
has been tested with Augustus 3.2.1, 3.2.2, and 3.2.3 so we strongly
recommend using one of these versions.  Future updates to Augustus
should not necessarily cause any serious problems, but users should be
aware of this possibility, and that the BUSCO team will strive to test
and update BUSCO when new versions of Augustus are released.

-- Generally the lineage to select for your assessments should be the
most specific lineage available, e.g.  for assessing fish data one
would select the ‘actinopterygii’ lineage rather than the ‘metazoa’
lineage.

-- If you are assessing a large number of species/strains/versions
etc.  then to minimise runtime (at the expense of resolution) one
might select a less specific lineage set with fewer BUSCOs, e.g.  for
assessing 20 bird genomes each with a couple of different assembly
versions one might select the ‘vertebrata’ or the ‘metazoa’ lineages
rather than the ‘aves’ lineage, at least for the initial rounds of
assessments.

-- Assessments generally produce several folders with lots of files
(especially when assessing genome assemblies).  These are for your
benefit, so that you can examine individual cases in more detail
and/or use the data for downstream analyses.  Once you are done with
them it would be a good idea to compress/tarball them for archiving.
If you are running many assessments it might be a good idea to
compress/tarball the results folders that contain many files as each
run finishes using the -z, --tarzip option.

-- Please do take some time to check the log files, these are there
for your benefit in order to highlight potential problems that may
have occurred during your BUSCO run.

-- Compare the results from assessing your data with like-for-like
assessments of corresponding publically available data for other
closely-related species.  In this way, the BUSCO results can be used
to claim that your dataset is as good as or better than existing
publically available datasets for similar species.

-- If manual curation of annotated gene sets was performed, report
BUSCO results before and after curation to quantify improvements.

Reporting  BUSCO: 


-- Report results in simple BUSCO notation:

C:89.0%[S:85.8%,D:3.2%],F:6.9%,M:4.1%,n:3023 

-- Use theBUSCO_plot.py script to produce simple graphical summaries
(that are easily customisable) for your publication’s supporting
online information.

-- Report the BUSCO, BLAST+, HMMER, and AUGUSTUS versions you used.

-- Report the BUSCO set(s) you used for your assessments.

-- Report the BUSCO options you used (e.g.  starting species for
Augustus parameters).

-- Report the version(s) of the genome assembly, annotated gene set,
or transcriptome that you assessed
